
# WP Zeus Framework

**Some stuff have been changed, and I got no time to update docs. Updates coming soon.**

The framework for WP plugin creators.

Features:

 * PSR-4 - No more annoying `require` frenzy.
 * Use `composer` to install and manage PHP dependencies.
 * Use TypeScript or JavaScript to create front end scripts, and `npm` to install packages and extend functionalities.
 * Enjoy `webpack` optimized build for production.

## Pre requisites

 - A Wordpress installation
 - [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) installed
 - Node.JS and npm installed (LTS recommended)

## Task list

 - [x] Project startup documentation
 - [x] Developing guidelines documentation
 - [x] JavaScript/TypeScript development documentation
 - [x] Custom post types implementation + Documentation
 - [x] `wp-json` API implementation + Documentation
 - [x] React usage documentation
 - [ ] Sass (.scss) support + documentation
 - [ ] `wp-config.php` setup
 - [ ] Production deploy documentation
 - [ ] Composer usage documentation
 - [ ] i18n support
 - [ ] Hooks documentation


## Quick start

1. Clone this repository into `plugins` folder of a development machine, and `cd` into `lib` folder.

```
# @wp-content/plugins
git clone https://github.com/obrunopolo/wp-zeus-framework.git ./zeus-framework
cd zeus-framework/lib
```

2. Install dependencies and run first build:

```
npm run update-dev
```

3. Start creating

## Project structure

After first project build, the main plugin folder has 4 subfolders:

 - `includes`: contains standalone .php files, such as the `Functions` and `Constants` files. Also holds the JavaScript files that are actually loaded into the view.
 - `lib`: contains development files. This folder could be omitted in production environments. Holds the JavaScript/TypeScript source files and is the place for running terminal commands.
 - `src`: the PHP source code, and the root of `Zeus` namespace. Holds the PSR-4 compliant code, and should be responsible for most of the plugin functionality.
 - `vendor`: contains the autoload file and the installed PHP dependencies, generated by `composer`.

## Development guidelines

The project is intended to be flexible to the developer, but also suggests usage of MVC architecture and reinforces OOP.

### Creating simple functionality

To encapsulate functionalities, we must have a `Controller` class that has a defined scope. For this example, let's say we need to add a greeting to the current user, when logged in, in the single post page, before the post content.

This could be achieved if we had a `User` controller, using the filter `the_content`, like this:

 - `src/Controllers/User.php`
```php
<?php

namespace Zeus\Controllers;

use Zeus\Framework\Contracts\Controller;
use Zeus\Framework\Contracts\Singleton;

class User extends Singleton implements Controller
{



    function filterPostContent($content) {
        $greeting = "";
        if (is_user_logged_in()) {
            $user = wp_get_current_user();
            $greeting = "<p>Hello, {$user->first_name}</p>";
        }
        return $greeting . $content;
    }

    public function run()
    {
        add_filter("the_content", [$this, "filterPostContent"]);
    }
}
```

Then, add the new controller to the main `App` class:

 - `src/App.php`

```php
<?php

namespace Zeus;

use Zeus\Controllers\User;

class App
{
    // {{...}}

    /** @var User */
    public $user;

    // {{...}}

    public function run()
    {

        // Instantiate controllers here
        // {{...}}
        $this->user = User::getInstance();
        // {{...}}
    }
}
```

Now you should see the greeting, if logged in.

## Continue creating

 - [Create JavaScript](__docs__/js.md)
 - [Create with React](__docs__/react.md)
 - [Create and manage new post types](__docs__/post.md)
 - [Create REST API endpoints](__docs__/endpoints.md)
